hi everyone welcome to the ipfs core
implementations weekly sync from monday
the 20th of july
2020. it's a lot of 20s in the date
today
uh we're going to go through all our
initiatives
um and then go through questions and
blockers and asks and that sort of thing
so for the high priority initiatives the
first thing is upcoming and ship
releases
so we shipped js ipfs 0.48
which is great so that
gave us delegates on by default
it gave us fixes for dht configuration
and storing blocks by multihash instead
of via cid
so for hopefully faster look ups and a
smaller overall repo size
please do install it and uh yeah let us
know how you get on
have there been any other ships releases
nope uh i think my current thinking is
that we're probably just gonna
bundle zero six one with zero seven
um just because there's there's a bunch
to do and we'd rather release zero seven
sooner rather than later
fair enough uh
moving on pinning services
oh yeah i'll go
um yeah so there's a um
the api and client development should be
unblocked now
we've got like basic approval on the
spec nothing big should change there may
be some some small tweaks
as we go along but that should be ready
to implement
i need to create a issue
in go ipfs to track implementation of
the client
and go and then whatever
other things that we need for ipvs
desktop to be able to hook into that
we can we can flush out in that issue
but from there we should be should be
good to go and all unblocked for
for moving forward with that
and then i will just move on to ed keys
since that is next
um so the there's the tracking issue
there for
go um there's a couple there's a few
things left
that need to get cleaned up there um
like ips key output
um there's some sharness test issues um
but nothing i don't think there's
anything major there
left 15 right nothing major
we may probably as bundling this
we should uh at least in go multi-adder
add support for base 36 encoding
or like yeah cidv1 encoding at all
um and go multi-outer uh
but it shouldn't be it shouldn't be a
big deal
yeah um and then the
other one issue that was blocking that
was um interrupt with js
um and the big problem there was uh
jess wasn't able to unmarshal go keys
um so a while back go changed
there was an issue where loot p2p was
taking
the ed keys and encoding them as like
private public
in your private key that also include
your public key already when that gets
marshaled
um but we were also appending the public
key again
so it was redundant and go got rid of
that a while ago
but js didn't and so when we go to
unmarshal the go keys
we fail because the cookie's not long
enough because we're expecting
that extra public key in there um so
that is
fixed and i just released an update to
the pdb js
crypto today um that includes that fix i
didn't change
how js is marshaling the key to avoid
breaking change
so we'll continue to put the redundant
public key in there for now
because go handles both but later i'll
get rid of that
to avoid any breaking changes but i
don't think too many people are using
82519 in js ipfs because they can't
because it breaks um and along with
that along those lines the problem that
we have with jas
using ed keys is importing and exporting
keys
um that like the way js is handling
it it exports and imports keys into the
keychain based on
um it being formatted as a pem
but that is like support for there in js
is atrocious across the board um just
crypto and js
is is rough and then also balancing
bundle size in the browser
is a bit of a nightmare um so what we're
likely going to look
at doing i talked with alex a bit today
is to
just for the ed keys and like sccp keys
to just change those over to um
import and export as protobufs because
that is the p2p default
and then later make rsa do that also
and then one of the requirements is that
we also support like
just password encoding of those keys um
so what we'll likely do
is just take the lipid protobuf and then
add um just like symmetric password
encryption
on that and then export that so that it
still has that same behavior
but will default to the protobuf this
will be like the easiest and quickest
fix that we can get for jsipfest to be
able to start using id keys
if anybody has concerns there
let me let me know um eventually we'd
like to support pen
in a variety of other formats um but
that's going to require
a significant overhaul of liberty crypto
to do that
yeah i guess uh two things one is
is there any reason why go ipfs needs to
be able to
deal with the password stuff like ipvs
has like a
we will decode password encrypted
private keys function that just does
nothing
right now because it was never
implemented do we have to implement that
so go doesn't export keys at all like
you can't yes for keys and go
um in js you can so you can export them
and so that's that's the big difference
there and so
that's really what we're we need to
support that because that functionality
is leveraged by ipns
to get the get the keys out
okay makes sense
i i i have a note or in the question
one is you might want to consider
generally deriving the
key out of the password and then using
that as
for the encryption resin password itself
because you can get a better
uh sorry
i'm looking out on the terms but
i don't know i'm i am more skeptical
about keto evasion functions because
like
they never have enough entropy to do any
good
but like you can yeah i think the main
concern that the api is trying to
handle is that the the api
the keys are encrypted when they're
stored
um that's the big thing there is that
their password encrypted when they're
stored so they're not just
stored unencrypted that's
like the big thing from the api key
we do support like we do support
at least in ed keys in js we support
creating from
from a seed which could be a password so
you can actually derive from the seed
with ed keys um but i don't think we're
actually using
the seed creation anywhere in in ipfs
ecosystem
for js i think that's just a somebody's
wanted that in libpdp so we support it
asking about that yeah sorry go ahead no
i i wasn't but it's okay
uh the other
things that i'm going to ask is there a
reason why we're not leveraging system
keychains rather than having to do our
own thing
it seems like every os has something
these days i would say
that there's not a good reason there may
have been a good reason like two or
three years ago but that was two or
three years ago
um that code like keychain and crypto
have been
very untouched in the last couple of
years um
and it it needs an overhaul and an
update like that whole api of crypto
needs an overhaul so in theory i don't
think there's anything stopping us from
using
system keychains um but we would just
need to
validate that or evaluate it rather
would it be useful to create an issue
about it so we get to that at some point
yeah yeah okay i'll do that
thank you
and that is it for ed keys cool next up
is the subdomain gateway
so it does say no news this week
yeah so um the remaining task as far as
i know
uh is shipping go ipfs 0.7 with
that fix for eddy
keys in subdomains and coded in base 36
and writing a blog post but we could
probably move this section to
other initiatives or yeah
next up is the rust initiative which was
looking like an r30 mega update
yeah i'm sort of making up for the past
few weeks when i haven't been around
and uh we've been busy um
the biggest piece of news is the um ad
functionality so unix
unixfs importing now um
is working for single files it's still a
little shaky but we're uh
we're getting through it it's just
functionality that touches a huge
breadth of
of things inside of fpfs um we've
improved our conformance testing
workflow a lot using git patches
so instead of submitting pull requests
to jsipfs
we're just patching it locally just to
change some of the apis that we need
um and now what we're working towards
is getting the rest ipfs nodes to
bootstrap and swarm
globally with content discovery and
content providing
want list and all that stuff so you can
look through the pull requests that i've
linked
um here uh the other thing
is there's some http api improvements
uh most notably the streaming multi-part
work
um to update all that and
some rust api improvements like arc
archifying um some of the inner ipfs
uh structs to make them easier to pass
around and
do multi-threading work and um
we've also added the bores tool for uh
build and pull request approval
automation and things like that so
um all across the board things are
getting faster and more
featureful i suppose
that's all from us
that's awesome uh next up is
uh jessica p2p sign peer records and
gossip sub review 1.1
yeah so for the record side of things
jacob got everything reviewed last week
and basically the prs for the interface
record the peer record and envelope
implementation
were also merged for the 0.29 release
branch
uh ended together with the exchanging of
the design peer records in the identify
protocol
so for this part of things to get done
we just need to have the certified
address book
pr merge which was also reviewed in the
the review address so i think it should
be ready or
mostly ready to be merged uh in the
gossip sub
side of things uh we are basically
refactoring the
base web sub implementation this thanks
to all the work that came and did in the
gossip server update
we basically wanted to extract some of
that work to the base implementation so
that the flood syllabus will leverage it
and yeah also gossip after this we'll
need to
get the scientific records also
integrated in the peer exchange pr
which is currently in progress and with
that we will need
to start looking into the interrupt
tests and
for that for this we are currently
blocked on
some gold b2b demand updates it would be
great if
anyone from the gofox could get that
landed
and yeah that's everything from the
gossip
side of things uh yeah i mean moving to
the
next section uh i basically renamed it
from
rendezvous to js improves
discoverability and connectivity
basically because we will be looking
into a broader scope
of what we want to achieve and from one
side is rendezvous but we are
we if you look at the issue that i
linked there are other things that
jacob created that will be our path in
order to improve
this side of things and so in the
rendezvous uh
i'm currently working on getting the
spec updated with the same peer records
and another other minor stuff that i
looked during the implementation
and uh yeah with that i also need to
integrate the thank you records
in the rendezvous and uh i'm also
working on uh a proposal for guaranteed
who has a discovery uh
protocol like the other ones so that we
can basically leverage out of the box
uh everything that the other uh
discovery
services do like the peer discovery
events and also
to add everything to the address book
without any
user manual work
and also allow power users to do them
do that themselves if they wish to and
yeah and uh
after the fender for getting to a state
of review
i will probably start working on the
auto relay as part of also of this
initiative
and yeah that's it i sort of missed that
what was the goal of pdp request
uh it's too uh there is currently one uh
pr to basically upload to goalie ptp dim
and
go mod to use the later not the latest
but the previous latest
release of just people it would be good
to have both so that we can
test interrupt with the latest two
releases of
goalie hp okay
cool so that's the end of the um the
main initiatives
section uh moving on to the other
initiatives
uh so you need suffice for 1.5 um
there's no update really um on the go
ipfs issue
somebody volunteered to pick up the work
so that's quite exciting
um
i'm not quite sure what happens next
there but
uh the migrations multi-hash keys in the
block store that are shipped in jsi pfs
now
um so that's cool the
next section for the pinning system
revamp i'm going to pick that up this
week
but i want to get all of iraqi's changes
in because i'm feeling like a bit of a
bottleneck to
a lot of that stuff so i'm going to
concentrate on that and then hopefully
later in the week pick up the
pending system stuff
so next up shared rpfs note
yeah so i did
uh i think i got the
i put them in the wrong place uh my
notes sorry
uh and i did the example uh choose a
shared ipfs node
that demonstrates using it uh kind of
like we have other examples
i've updated a pull request to do that
and it's a waiting on the review i still
have to pull in the
newest stuff namely ipfs ad
and ipfs at all separation and i'm going
to work on that today
update the pull request again
um the next one is improving web file ad
uh which is uh so we had a conversation
with alex and hugo and
uh decided to pull out the file and blow
pieces
out of the js ipfs which i did
and published as a libraries linked in
the notes
i have pulled in and integrated changes
for ipfs and
at all separation in there
and update it pull request
i added a bunch of tests to try to catch
all kind of regressions that might
happen in our ad input normalization to
make sure that
down the line we don't regress
in uh improvements
and yeah so the pull request now is
blocked on review the other
thing is we do have another patch for
the web ui that is
supposedly fixed set which is the
primary use case
uh which kind of waits on the changes in
js ipfs to
land before we can take them in there
also one thing that came
to my mind that maybe it is worse
landing that pull request
without waiting waiting for js ipfs
right now it
does optimization uh
like uh by just consuming jsi pfs http
api
directly uh and once jsipfs
changes lens then we can rip that piece
out and make use of js ipfs
uh i don't know if that's what's doing
or not but if we're having a time
pressure
we could consider doing that too
so that's it
cool so moving on to design review
proposals
nothing in that section
blockers and asks
questions oh my dean sma ask
oh go ahead wanna give it to you
um there uh
there's an issue with ips keys um
using ips over pub sub between uh
js and go where you sort of like you
publish on js
and then you have trouble resolving and
go uh
this is i
think this is just because of an issue
where like we were
we kept around the whole um
looking for public keys separately from
ips records which has been obsolete for
a while um i have a pr that i think
should fix this
but it would be great if someone could
run it with the interop tests
um i think the contributor put out a new
branch
that exhibits the failure
and sees if it'll work um
yeah so that would be great
as an added bonus this will speed up ips
resolution on ipfs
for basically free
um i have a question that isn't related
to rust ipfs but related to the pinning
api
um we are uh this is about orbit db
we're exploring
using the pinning api or the pinning
spec
to allow orbit db to hook up to things
like filecoin
or other you know
things of that nature and i'm wondering
the question is
should we move ahead now with um
something like
powergate to integrate with filecoin or
should we
wait for the pinning api to be more
quote ready
or should we collaborate and figure out
if um orbitdb
you know can can help smooth out some of
the use cases or things like that
um and i'm wondering if anybody here
would be willing to hop on probably a
different call
or just email with me or something to
hash some of that out
yeah i think maybe leitel and i could
hop on
and talk about that i think like that
might depend what you want to do
because like right now that the painting
service spec
is very like it's very basic because
we're not sure like what that's going to
look at long term and there's like a lot
of discussion
around okay let's change pinning to
actually like just be
like pin threads um but we need to do a
lot more work to flush that out
so i think like if you want to go that
direction then i haven't looked a lot of
powergate but maybe powergate's a
better route to go down for that but we
can
we can chat at about that offline
or hop on a call or something to talk
about that
yeah why don't somebody send me a good
way to reach
y'all or i'll i'll get in touch with you
and then we'll sort that out
thanks
cool anything for the parking lot
oh i guess i had i i put up a pr for a
dag size command apparently
i was yes you know i was recently
informed that there's no easy way or you
can just ask for the size of
a dag without it being unix fs
and relying on the field that's in unix
fs
so there there is a
prototype of what that would look like
in a pr
to go ipfs i suspect that js ipfs may
have some interest
um yeah a month or so back i spent some
time
explaining to pinata that they can't
really trust the number in unix fs and
that like people could lie
um so we we should definitely document
them somewhere and having this command
to point people out would be super
useful because it's like an actual real
world kind of trusted thing that you
could do
yeah i was actually talking to matt
about this is what sort of gave me the
impetus to just do it over the weekend
yeah it's super useful if you stick a
link in the um
in the notes for that that would be rad
the one the one thing that we we did in
the the data structure screen xsp2 for
this
and the flexible byte layout which
handles kind of like the layout for all
the bytes
um if you lie about the size anywhere it
means that you can't really read the
data structure efficiently so
it actually breaks things when you lie
that was like as far as we could really
get to
to make it less likely or disincentivize
people to lie about the size
yeah i mean right now it just sort of
does like the simplest
dumbest thing which is like traverse the
dag
and then read out all the sizes and
number of blocks and add them up and
return them to you
it does skip duplicates so there is that
but like
you could be smarter and do things like
don't actually read
the don't actually read raw blocks into
memory
because you know that they're not going
anywhere you could just get the size
from disk and that would be enough
um things things like that but for now
it's like
better than nothing so
better than nothing
so this is kind of random but somewhat
related um
i'm working on an a potential upgrade to
the car file format
that will stick a manifest at the end of
it and so the manifest would allow you
to seek into the
the car file and actually read things
out without having to to do full parses
of the of the file
or um even for parts of the block and so
we're sort of figuring out like what
should and should be in this manifest
but one thing that will obviously be in
there is like block sizes but i'm
debating about whether
to or not to even put like um link
information in there
so that it presents you kind of a full
picture of the the links in the dag
without ever having to parse out
anything in the file or decode anything
um and that would really help with stuff
like this like you'd be able to
calculate dags without ever decoding a
block
stuff like that and so it may turn out
that like this style of sort of manifest
building
is something that we also leverage for
storage layers and things like that
because it could
make a lot of things a lot faster
including gc
yeah there's been a bunch of talk of
like using manifests in various ways to
speed up
investigating data and moving data
around so like
yeah any any exploration there is
probably helpful
yeah working i had an idea over the
weekend that i couldn't get out of my
head so i
wrote a parser um
but there we are at time uh thank you
all for coming
to the core implementations which you
think for the 20th of july 2020 uh
please fill out your async updates
in the notes if you haven't done already
um and we'll see you next week
say stay for everyone bye